---
layout: post
title: Virtual Machine on Ubuntu 12.04 and Samba. 
comments: True
---

I wanted to use a Windows XP VM to well, play Age of Empires on Ubuntu. As it turns out, I can't connect to multiplayer aoe using this method but I did learn a few cool things along the way. In case you know of a method to play aoe 2 on ubuntu, (without using wine ?) please do drop a comment. <a href="http://www.howtogeek.com/117635/how-to-install-kvm-and-create-virtual-machines-on-ubuntu/">This</a> is probably one of the easiest methods of creating VMs on Ubuntu.

Even though there are a number of Word Document Processors on Ubuntu, there are some serious compatibility issues between them and MS Office. With the abundance of <em>.doc files </em>it is difficult to survive without MS Word. Also switching to Windows every now and then for petty Photoshop tasks is quite a pain. But now that I have a Windows VM, things are pretty easy.
<h3>File Sharing between VM and Ubuntu</h3>
This was a tricky part. The VM did not detect USB Drives or any other drive mounted on Ubuntu. Some quick Googling led me to <em>Samba. </em>It's an awesome cross platform file and printer sharing server and pretty easy to configure.
<h4>Hosting Samba Server</h4>
<ul>
	<li>Install Samba Server</li>
</ul>
{% highlight bash %}
$sudo apt-get install samba samba-common
$sudo apt-get install python-glade2
# The following package provides a GUI to configure sharing options.
$sudo apt-get install system-config-samba
{% endhighlight %}
<ul>
	<li>Set user password.</li>
</ul>
{% highlight bash %}
$sudo smbpasswd -a username
{% endhighlight %}
<ul>
	<li>Enable Sharing : The GUI provides some easy to use options or you can always edit /etc/samba/samba.conf to enable sharing. This is how my conf files look like.</li>
</ul>
{% highlight bash %}
[Downloads]
comment = Downloads
path = /home/shivam/Downloads
writeable = yes
; browseable = yes
valid users = shivam
{% endhighlight %}
<ul>
	<li>Restart Samba server</li>
</ul>
{% highlight bash %}
$sudo service smbd restart
{% endhighlight %}
<h4>Connecting to Samba Server from Windows</h4>
<ul>
	<li>Run (Start Button + R)</li>
	<li>\\IP address of ubuntu machine. Example - \\192.168.1.3</li>
	<li>Enter Username / Password specified at the beginning.</li>
</ul>
And there you go! Full access to your Shared Folder. Samba FTW!